Hello. In this video,
you're going to learn to
manipulate vectors and
specifically by performing
some simple vector arithmetic,
meaning by adding vectors
and subtracting vectors,
you will be able to predict
the countries of
certain capitals.
Let's dive in. In this portion,
I'll show you how to manipulate
vector representations
in order to infer unknown
relations among words.
Suppose that you
have a vector space
with countries and
their capital cities.
You know that the capital
of the United States is
Washington DC and you don't
know the capital of Russia,
but you'd like to use the
known relationship between
Washington DC and the
USA to figure it out.
For that, you'll just use
some simple vector algebra.
For this example, you are in
a hypothetical two-dimensional
vector space that has
different representations for
different countries
and capitals cities.
First, you will have to find
the relationship between
the Washington DC and USA
vector representations.
In other words, which
vector connects them?
To do that, get the difference
between the two vectors.
The values from
that will tell you
how many units on each dimension
you should move in order to find
a country's capital
in that vector space.
So to find the capital
city of Russia,
you will have to sum
it's vector presentation
with the vector that you
also got in the last step.
At the end, you should
deduce that the capital of
Russia has a vector
representation of 10, 4.
However, there are no cities
with that representation,
so you'll have to take the one
that is the most
similar to its by
comparing each vector with
the Euclidean distances
or cosine similarities.
In this case, the vector
representation that
is closest to the 10,
4 is the one for Moscow.
Using this simple process,
you could have predicted
the capital of
Russia if you knew the
capital of the USA.
The only catch here is that
you need a vector space where
the representations
capture the relative
meaning of words.
Now you have a simple process
to get unknown relationships
between words by the use of
known relationships
between others.
You now know the importance of
having vectors spaces where
the representations of words
capture the relative meaning
in natural language.
In upcoming parts of
this specialization,
you will perform more
sophisticated tasks
taking advantage of this
type of representation.
You have now seen a clustering of
all vectors when
plotted on two axes.
You have also seen
that the vectors
of the words that occur in
similar places in the sentence
will be encoded in a similar way.
You can take advantage
of this type of
consistency encoding
to identify patterns.
For example, if you had
the word doctor and
you were to find
the closest words
that are closest to
it by computing
cosine similarity,
you might get the word doctors,
nurse, cardiologist,
surgeon, etc.
In the next video,
you will learn how to plot
these d-dimensional
vectors on a 2D plane.